In this video, we will see a few more functions of string class.
I have a list of functions here.
Let us look at this function.
Copy.
So already I have shown you a string copy function strip UI previously that that works upon array.
So it is a similar thing.
So it will copy a string into a character array.
It will not create a new string, but it will copy it in a character array.
So if you have a string as let us say the string is welcome, then if you want to copy this one, then
you have to take an array of some size, string of some size.
Let us say ten.
Then upon this, a string we can call a function as dot copy.
Then we have to mention this character.
So that's what you can see this.
You have to mention character.
And one more thing here.
You have to mention how many characters you want from this one.
Suppose I want this entire string, then I should say as to dot length.
Let will give the number of letters in the string.
So I should say this one.
So this string will be copied in an array.
So if I draw an array.
Of some size ten.
This welcome will be copied and it will terminate by slash zero.
After copying this welcome, it will add null character at the end.
So this is about copy function.
Let us look at the demonstration of this function.
So here already I have a string that is welcome.
Now let us declare an array start of size ten.
Then I will call the function s dot.
Copy and first parameter is str that is the array.
Then second parameter is a number of characters I want so I can say l dot length.
So this will get the length of a string.
Now here I will print this str.
So the string will be copied in str.
Right.
So let us display it.
Yeah, it's working.
So it is copied in style.
So you can see that I am printing a str.
Now let us make a change here.
I don't want the entire length, so I'll remove this.
I will say I want only first three letters.
That is w e n right.
So let us see what happens if I try to just copy w in that time I was copying entire string, the complete
string.
Right.
So full length it was copying.
Now let us run this.
Oh.
It has taken three alphabets.
Then the remaining it is showing some junk characters, garbage values.
So in place of commie, it is showing garbage values.
So it means slash zero.
That is null.
Character is not inserted here.
So.
It is not automatically inserted.
So when I was taking length, everything was copied.
Now let us take it.
A score of three.
See, the index is three because I am copying three alphabet.
So indices are 012.
So the index three, I will store slash zero.
Now let us print it.
Yes, it is trending w e l That's it.
W e n So when I say complete string length, the entire string, along with the null character, is
also copied.
Right.
But here, if I take few alphabets, then only few alphabets are copied but not null characters.
So I should add another character at the end of this order.
So this is a copy function we have seen.
Now let us move to next function.
Next function is find.
This is used for finding the occurrence of a string inside a main street or a character also.
For example, if there is a string, does the string.
How are you?
I want to find out.
What is the index of?
Ah.
So this function will return zero one, two, three, four.
So it gives the index that is four.
So it means this word, ah is appearing inside the string and it is starting at index four.
Even I can give a single character.
Also I can say find.
Just a letter Y, very disappearing.
So from the side, left hand side, it will start right like this was four, five, six, seven, eight.
So the index will be eight.
So this is four fine.
And similarly we have a function called are fine.
That is reverse fine.
So it will find the occurrence of a letter from right hand side.
So if I say str dot find.
Or letter O.
Then this is zero one.
Index will be one.
And if I say str dot are fine.
For the same letter o.
Then from this side it will find out.
And this will be index eight and nine.
So this is nine from the side.
So it will start searching for this letter or as well as a string from the right hand side.
And one more thing if I find.
A letter.
Let us see.
Kay.
It is not their inside the string case.
Not there and this is string.
So what it will return?
It may return either minus one or it may return the largest string index.
That is possible.
That is, if you remember, max size was a function which was giving the maximum possible size of a
string.
So it may return that value.
So it will return the value that is out of the range of this length of a string.
So it will be an invalid index.
So if you're getting index to confirm whether this index is correct or not, you should check whether
it is lying in between this length or not.
So it should be less than or equal to this length.
If it is outside the length, then it is an invalid index.
It means this letter is not found.
So what the result will return?
It depends on the implementation.
It may change from compiler to compiler.
So but here, if this key is not there, it will return any index that is outside this index.
So the length of the string is 11.
So if any index is outside this, it means that string or a letter is not present inside the string.
Let us look at the demonstration for this.
Here I have a string so I will directly call c out and see str dot find and I will give a word r and
the suspended index is for.
I'll give the string.
That is why.
Oh.
In Texas eight.
Right.
I'll give the next.
Sorry.
I'll give a word.
Is Redstone, Nancy?
As is not there.
So it has given some largest number that is outside the range or the length of the string that is not
within the length.
So it means this word is not found.
I'll just give a letter.
Oh.
Always found at index one.
Yes, this is at index one.
Now I have shown you our index.
Let us write.
As I have shown, you are fine.
So let us use our fine.
Just giving the index of a letter O from the right hand side.
That is index nine.
That's it.
So this is about the fine function.
Let us move on to the next function.
Our next function is fine.
First off, this will find occurrence of a character from the left hand sort of string.
It will find out the first occurrence.
Now, here, already I have taken a string and also have given indices.
That will be easy for us to know.
The index.
I'll use this function, then I'll explain you.
Suppose I say find first off, letter L.
So suppose they want to find out the index of letter L.
So it gives the index that is two.
Well that there is a function called last stuff.
Then it will give the index that is nine.
So but first off, I get the index of this too.
And last off I get the index of that is this L that is nine and we have one more version in this one.
Right, overloaded function.
So I can call this function by giving the starting index.
Also find first of.
L and I want the starting index to be three.
So I wanted to search from index three onwards so it will search for my index three know the first letter
that is index three itself is l.
So it is the index that is three.
So here it gives the index two and here it gives the index three.
Suppose here for fine.
First off, if I give the index that is four.
So from index four onwards it will start looking for a letter.
L So that is found at nine.
So this will be nine.
So you can find the occurrence, first occurrence of a given letter from the starting of a string as
well as you can start from any index so you can find it from left hand side, right and even you can
find it from right hand side.
So first off, this for left hand side, last of is for right hand side.
Even in this function, we can mention multiple characters or multiple alphabets for finding the occurrence.
Like if I say find, first off, I'll give the letters that is L and E, so I'm making a string.
So it will look for either L or E, whichever is found.
It will return in index.
So the result of this one will be index one.
Is it the index one?
So it will not look for the matching of this string.
It is not like find.
Find was for searching whether this string is present in this one or not.
But here it will look for individual letters.
If any of the letter is found, then it will give the index.
So I have given L or E.
So as E is found here.
So it will give the index one.
So let us look at these functions.
I have a string hello world.
Now I will directly call this function which see out so str dot find first of.
And I'll give the letter N.
Yes.
Index is two.
So this is zero.
This is one.
And this is two.
This is two.
Now I will give the starting index three.
So I want to look for L from starting index three.
Let us see.
She is the result.
And if I give beyond three, that is four.
So it should give me index that is nine.
Yes, it is giving a next nine.
Like I said, we can give a string also.
I'll give a string that is l e.
But it will not take it as a string.
It will take individual letters.
So it has given the next one because is found at index one.
So defining the occurrence of a letter, right.
So you can give a group of letters as a string.
Now.
Here, I'll give Elle an install find.
First off, I'll say last stuff.
I'll change the name of a function.
Let us say last off.
So it should give the index nine.
Yes, it has given the index nine.
So that's it.
That's all.
You can use this function for fighting.
Any particular character within a string does a very useful function.